date: 2014-10-01T15:36:40Ztitle: October ArticleSummary: "Surgery, Solar Farm, Cricket Club, Grants, Norton Green"
category: knebworth
tags: NHDC, politics



# Planning Matters

Several significant applications are due to be considered by the KPC
Planning Committee on 13<sup>th</sup> October. Please submit your
comments to NHDC before the deadline if you have views, and/or raise
them with the KPC Planning Committee. As in all Parish and District
Council meetings, members of the public are welcome to attend committee
meetings:

**Knebworth GP Surgery**: An application has been made for 1 Stevenage
Road a proposal for eight one-bedroom flats on the site of the Knebworth
GP Surgery – the deadline for comments to be made to NHDC is
9<sup>th</sup> October, and as HCC is responsible for the provision of
the GP surgeries, Knebworth’s HCC representative, Cllr Richard Thake, is
fully involved.

**Solar Farms**: At its last planning meeting KPC objected to the
proposed Swangley’s Lane Solar Farm, having had extensive discussion and
views expressed by residents, other members of the public and the
developer, and will be considering a second solar farm at Crouch Green,
on Three Houses Lane (deadline 16<sup>th</sup> October).

**Knebworth Park Cricket Club**: An amended application is due to be
considered (deadline 30<sup>th</sup> October).

**Other residential**: A new application for the Bulwer Lytton House
site in Lytton Fields (deadline 16<sup>th</sup> October) and an
application for proposed development at 111 London Road will also be
considered.

# NHDC – Capital and Grant Funding Awards

Two awards of additional funding have been made by NHDC committees:

  - A grant of &pound;7,000 has been awarded to Knebworth Parish Council by
    the NHDC Rural Community Halls Capital Fund. This will allow a major
    upgrade to the heating system in the Village Hall, just in time for
    the cold winter months.

  - The Knebworth Day Centre for the vulnerable and elderly received a
    boost when it received a grant of &pound;1,000 from NHDC’s Southern Rural
    Area Committee to help with operational costs. Knebworth Day Centre,
    a not-for-profit organisation staffed by ten volunteers, has
    provided social activities for elderly and frail people for 25
    years, and currently around 15 members meet every Monday from 10am
    to 3pm.

# Parking – Proposals for Further Restrictions

I hope that some of you were able to attend the meeting in the Village
Hall on 23<sup>rd</sup> September when proposals to introduce further
parking restrictions in Pondcroft Road, Milestone Road, Deanscroft, Gun
Lane, Gun Road and (to a minor extent) Station Road. There is also a
proposal, although at an earlier stage, to introduce parking
restrictions in Watton Road. Full details are available in the Library
or on the Parish Council and NHDC websites. Please be quick as the
deadline for comments is 3rd October – you can email comments to
<transport@north-herts.gov.uk>.

# Norton Green Common

Fly Tipping and illegal access to the SSSI on the Common continues to be
a problem. Representatives of Natural England and HCC have just been out
to look at the tipping and have proposed a solution to restrict access
on the Common by introducing bollards right along up to the beginning of
the SSSI. Knebworth Estates have agreed pay for the bollards as they
will also stop access to their woodland, which has suffered from fly
tipping in the past.
