title: Commodities Update
date: 2023-01-24
status: published

# 2023-01-24

# Commodities
I'm late with 'a year in review' post, but I think it's worth looking back a year
from now, to see what's happening in commodities markets.
## The winners
### Coal
The dirtiest, most carbon intense source of energy has had a stonking year!
US coal is up 60% YoY.
I guess it's all those mothballed coal-fired power stations that had to be started up
because, well, Ukraine and stuff. Heating Oil (30% YoY) has done pretty well too.

### Lithium
The lightest metal has had a great year. Up 30%.
The story is pretty clear: EVs are here to stay.
My best guess its that it has further to go. 
Cobalt, also used in battery manufacture, crashed in price.
Be careful trading this stuff!
Molybdenum was up 64%, but it's classified as an 'industrial commodity', 
so not a 'metal', even though it clearly is. A quick bit of research 
suggests that it's used a lot for high-performance steel, of the 
sort used to make tanks and missiles. This might have something to do
with the spike in price. It's also used to make the catalysts used 
in oil refining.
Uranium eked out a gain of 8.5%. Lots of pundits have great hopes for it, but 
so far it's vey meh, in terms of performance.

### Potatoes
Yup, the humble spud is a clear winner in the agricultural commodity
space. It's up 38%, well ahead of the runner up, orange juice (31%) and 
the bronze medallist, rice (up 22%). 
I guess the carbs have it.
Eggs in the US have gone up in price by 220% YoY.
I suspect that avian flu is to blame.

### Nuclear Power
Well, power from nukes is not traded as a commodity, 
but it's interesting that the cost of electrical energy in France went up
by 30%, whereas in the rest of Europe (including the UK) went down.

## The losers
We have:
- TTF (Dutch) gas: down 38%,
- Hot Rolled Coil Steel: down 51%,
- Lumber, down 56%,
- Magnesium, down 49% (but urea is down 40%, which is interesting),
- Lean hogs: down 20%.

## Conclusion
Predicting commodity movements, even over quite long time frames, is difficult.
I heard 'experts' predicting huge gains for oil, urea and cobalt as well as natural gas,
but all these things have failed to perform.
The elephant in the commodities space, crude oil, caught everyone out:
it was down a modest 5.6% over the year. I don't think I heard a single pundit predict that.

The other issue is that some commodities are more volatile than others.
It would have been better to compare 'Z scores' (moves scaled by historical standard deviation), but the site I got these from
doesn't do this for me, and I couldn't be bothered to get the
volatility and do it for myself, with the result that the winners
and losers are probably just the commodities with the most 
volatile prices. It's the same with countries GDP: South Sudan 
either comes top or bottom in the league of percentage change
in GDP. 

## Source
I did my research at [Trading Economics](https://tradingeconomics.com/commodities).
Their tables are downloadable; I'd have liked to include a table here, 
but I am on the free tier, so I'm not able to export data.
