title: Gilts on the brink
date: 2022-10-13
status: published

# 2022-10-13
## Apology
I've been on holiday, and then I've been busy catching up. 
I will start writing something every evening pretty soon, but my Real Life &tm; is rather busy right now.

## Wrap
It was an inflation day. The headline rate was 8.2%, 10bp above expectations, but nothing serious. Stocks responded positively.
Oil recovered some of its recent losses (but still well below where it was a week ago).
Bonds continued to be weak, with 10Y US treasuries seemingly irreversibly creeping up to a yield of 4%.
UK Treasuries (gilts) jumped, presumably on intervention from the BoE. 
It seems clear that the week timescale path has to be down, as the UK govt. has irretrievably lost the confidence of the markets and the voters.

## Poem
A few lines from this poem was quoted by Rory Stewart on his podcast with Alistair Campbell. He was explaining the difference between a 'One Nation' Conservative and a Whig. He identified Truss and Kwarteng as Whigs, in contrast to Cameron and himself as 'One Nation' Tories (or what Margaret Thatcher characterized as 'Wets').

    **THE SEVEN SAGES**

_The First_: My great-grandfather spoke to Edmund Burke  
In Grattan's house.

_The Second_:          My great-grandfather shared  
A pot-house bench with Oliver Goldsmith once.

_The Third_: My great-grandfather's father talked of music,  
Drank tar-water with the Bishop of Cloyne.

_The Fourth_:  But mine saw Stella once.

_The Fifth_:                                             Whence came our thought?

_The Sixth_: From four great minds that hated Whiggery.

_The Fifth_: Burke was a Whig.  
  
_The Sixth_:                               Whether they knew or not  
Goldsmith and Burke, Swift and the Bishop of Cloyne  
All hated Whiggery; but what is Whiggery?  
A levelling, rancorous, rational sort of mind  
That never looked out of the eye of a saint  
Or out of drunkard's eye.  
  
_The Seventh_:                     All's Whiggery now,  
But we old men are massed against the world.  
  
_The First_: American colonies, Ireland, France and India  
Harried, and Burke's great melody against it

_The Second_: Oliver Goldsmith sang what he had seen,  
Roads full of beggars, cattle in the fields,  
But never saw the trefoil stained with blood,  
The avenging leaf of those fields raised up against it.

_The Fourth_: The tomb of Swift wears it away.

_The Third_:                                                     A voice  
Soft as the rustle of a reed from Cloyne  
That gathers volume; now a thunder-clap.

_The Sixth_: What schooling had these four?

_The Seventh_:                                             They walked the roads  
Mimicking what they heard, as children mimic;  
They understood that wisdom comes of beggary.

                                                (William Butler [Yeats](http://www.geocities.com/Athens/5379/yeats_index.html), 1933, _The Windings Stair and Other Poems_)              

