title: Is a trillion pounds a lot of money?
date: 2022-09-08
status: published
> 
# 2022-09-08
## Bank stress tests
[This paper](https://bankunderground.co.uk/2022/09/08/measuring-capital-at-risk-in-the-uk-banking-sector/) from researchers at the Bank of England suggests that as of Q4 last year, the probability of an 'extreme stress event' was around 1.7%. 
Numbers like this have to have a spurious precision.
The researchers looked at £9.4 trillion  in assets on banks' balance sheets. 
It seems right that the BoE worries about the probability of banks going under, as it will end up bailing them out. In theory, in the past banks might have been allowed to fail, but given that most creditors (depositors) will be protected against losses, one can see why other routes have been taken, most often dropping interest rates to reflate assets.
 
I have no doubt that the authors are professional and well intentioned. I just have a nagging feeling that banks have every incentive to find ways around the capital adequacy rules, and that it will be some hidden source of risk that will undo banks next time. Of course, there are a lot of entities that do very bank-like things without being regulated as a bank. One thinks of the crypto exchanges, but this is minor in comparison to some fintech providers.

## Wrap
From Refinitiv:
> The European Central Bank will raise interest rates again to fight runaway inflation and, with a big move and a record one under consideration, the only question is by how much.
> 
> Russian President Vladimir Putin threatened to halt all energy shipments to Europe, if Brussels goes ahead with a proposal to cap the price of Russian gas, in a combative speech declaring Russia would not lose the war in Ukraine.
> 
> Apple on Wednesday avoided price hikes of its best-selling iPhones during its biggest product launch of the year, focusing on safety upgrades rather than flashy new technical specs with the exception of a new adventure-focused watch.

## Politics
The new PM in the UK has promised to cap energy bills.
This will cost a lot.
