---
title: Stolen from Max Nova's Review of Jim Paul's Book
status: published
date: 2020-5-10
slug: million
tags: books
category: markets
---

# Disclaimer

I pinched all this from 
[Max Nova's Review](http://books.max-nova.com/losing-a-million-dollars/). 
I plan to somehow use this as the basis of some articles.

#### FOREWORD

**Trading, as far as I know, is the only endeavor in which the rank
amateur has a 50/50 chance of being right.** Why? Because there are only
two things you could do in trading: you can buy or you can sell.

#### PREFACE

The moral of the story you are about to read is: Success can be built
upon repeated failures when the failures aren’t taken personally;
likewise, failure can be built upon repeated successes when the
successes are taken personally.

**Personalizing successes sets people up for disastrous failure.** They
begin to treat the successes totally as a personal reflection of their
abilities rather than the result of capitalizing on a good opportunity,
being at the right place at the right time, or even being just plain
lucky. They think their mere involvement in an undertaking guarantees
success.

**You can’t really be set up for disaster without having it preceded by
success.**

### PART ONE - REMINISCENCES OF A TRADER

-----

**Experience is the worst teacher. It gives the test before giving the
lesson. —UNKNOWN**

Drucker has also said, “Success always obsoletes the behavior that
achieved it.”

Listen to Herb Kelleher, CEO of Southwest Airlines: “I think the easiest
way to lose success is to become convinced that you are successful.”

**Smart people learn from their mistakes and wise people learn from
somebody else’s mistakes.**

#### 1 - FROM HUNGER

I became Johnny’s personal caddy, which is how I got out of Elsmere,
Kentucky, the first time in my life.

#### 2 - TO THE REAL WORLD

I was accepted to the University of Kentucky in 1961.

#### 3 - WOOD THAT I WOULD TRADE

**Anytime you see a committee of more than ten, it isn’t the real
committee. There’s a subcommittee somewhere making the decisions.**

I had only been in town six months, and I was elected because I had
presence, wore a vest and $80 shoes, knew a lot about the markets, and
knew a lot of people in the industry.

Both of us were doing some business with Potlatch, a huge
paper-manufacturing and lumber firm in the northwest.

**The vast majority of the successes in my life were because I got
lucky**, not because I was particularly smart or better or different. I
didn’t know it at this point in the story, but I sure as hell was about
to find out.

#### 4 - SPECTACULAR SPECULATOR

The Arabian horse fiasco cost me about $50,000 before it was over. Here
I was thinking I could make money in Arabian horses, and I couldn’t even
ride one.

One of the oldest rules of trading is: If a market is hit with very
bullish news and instead of going up, the market goes down, get out if
you’re long. **An unexpected and opposite reaction means there is
something seriously wrong with the position.**

When I was making money, I couldn’t wait for the market to open. When I
was losing money, I couldn’t wait for it to close. **Time is very
painful when you’re losing money.**

I can remember sitting at my desk crying as they started to strip the
office. It was the absolute lowest point in my life. I had gone from
having everything on August 31 to nothing on November 17.

#### 5 - THE QUEST

The money I’d made over the years “trading” wasn’t because I was a good
trader. I’d made money because of being a good sales man, being at the
right place at the right time, and knowing the right people, rather than
because of some innate trading ability.

\[NOTE: Lots of contradictory advice about how to make money\]

  - I haven’t met a rich technician. (Jim Rogers)
  - I always laugh at people who say, ‘I’ve never met a rich
    technician.’ I love that\! It is such an arrogant, nonsensical
    response. I used fundamentals for nine years and then got rich as a
    technician. (Marty Schwartz)
  - Diversify your investments. (John Templeton)
  - Diversification is a hedge for ignorance. (William O’Neil)
  - Concentrate your investments. If you have a harem of 40 women you
    never get to know any of them very well. (Warren Buffett)
  - You have to understand the business of a company you have invested
    in, or you will not know whether to buy more if it goes down. (Peter
    Lynch)
  - Averaging down is an amateur strategy that can produce serious
    losses. (William O’Neil)
  - Don’t bottom fish. (Peter Lynch)
  - Don’t try to buy at the bottom or sell at the top. (Bernard Baruch)
  - Maybe the trend is your friend for a few minutes in Chicago, but for
    the most part it is rarely a way to get rich. (Jim Rogers)
  - I believe the very best money is made at the market turns. Everyone
    says you get killed trying to pick tops and bottoms and you make all
    the money by catching the trends in the middle. Well, for twelve
    years I have often been missing the meat in the middle, but I have
    caught a lot of bottoms and tops. (Paul Tudor Jones)
  - When you’re not sure what is going to happen in the market it is
    wise to protect yourself by going short in something you think is
    overvalued. (Roy Neuberger)
  - Whether I am bullish or bearish, I always try to have both long and
    short positions—just in case I’m wrong. (Jim Rogers)
  - I have tried being long a stock and short a stock in the same
    industry but generally found it to be unsuccessful. (Michael
    Steinhardt)
  - Many traders have the idea that when they are in a commodity (or
    stock), and it starts to decline, they can hedge and protect
    themselves, that is, short some other commodity (or stock) and make
    up the loss. There is no greater mistake than this. (W. D. Gann)


### PART TWO - LESSONS LEARNED

-----

Good judgment is usually the result of experience, and experience
frequently the result of bad judgment. —ROBERT LOVETT

Losing money in the markets is the result of either: (1) some fault in
the analysis or (2) some fault in its application.

Chapter 8 explains that **emotions are neither good nor bad; they simply
are. Emotions per se cannot be avoided. Emotionalism, on the other hand,
can and should be avoided.**

#### 6 - THE PSYCHOLOGICAL DYNAMICS OF LOSS

So between August 1983 and August 1984, I lost all of my money; went
$400,000 in debt; lost my membership, my job, my Board of Governor’s
seat, my Executive Committee seat, and both of my parents. I lost
everything that was important to me except my wife and kids. That was
not a good twelve months.

**Losses per se don’t bother them; unexpected losses and losing on
balance does.**

But **if you lose as a participant of a game, you weren’t wrong; you
were defeated**. If you lose as a spectator of a game, you must have
placed a bet (or expressed an opinion) on the game’s outcome and you
lost money (or were wrong), but you were not defeated.

However, all losses can be categorized either as (1) internal, such as
self-control, esteem, love, your mind, or (2) external, such as a bet, a
game or contest, money. External losses are objective, and internal
losses are subjective.

When my father was dying, a friend of mine gave me a book about people
with terminal illnesses titled On Death and Dying, by Elisabeth
Kübler-Ross.

#### 7 - THE PSYCHOLOGICAL FALLACIES OF RISK

Most people who think they are investing are speculating. And most
people who think they are speculating are gambling. —UNKNOWN

**The big difference is: gambling creates risk while
investing/speculating assumes and manages risk that already exists.**

**But the distinguishing characteristic of a bettor or a gambler is
whether he wants the satisfaction of being right in his prediction or
the entertainment of participating, respectively.**

#### 8 - THE PSYCHOLOGICAL CROWD

The nineteenth-century philosopher Gustave Le Bon put it this way:
“Crowds are somewhat like the sphinx of ancient fable: it is necessary
to arrive at a solution to the problem offered by their psychology or
resign ourselves to being devoured by them.”

**Rather, we need a model to alert us to when we are becoming part of a
crowd.**

**Ordinarily, greed and fear are cited as the two driving emotions of
market participants. However, hope and fear are the primary emotions;
greed is simply hope run amok.**

### PART THREE - TYING IT ALL TOGETHER

-----

#### 9 - RULES, TOOLS, AND FOOLS

If you occasionally break the rules and still have an unbroken string of
successes, you are likely to compound the problem because you assume
that you are better than other people and above the rules. Your ego
inflates, and you refuse to recognize the reality of a loss when it
comes. You assume that you will be right.

In the words of financial editor James Grant, **“Because the future is
always unfathomable, there are always buyers and sellers in every
market. If the socialists were right — if the future could be accurately
divined — markets would disband because nobody would ever take the
losing side of a trade.”**

**When dealing with the risk of the uncertainty of the future, you have
three choices: engineering, gambling, or speculating.**

Speculating is the application of intellectual examination and
systematic analysis to the problem of the uncertain future. **Successful
investing is the result of successful speculation.**

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan put it this way: **“The historic
purpose of banking is to take prudent risks through the extension of
loans to risk taking businesses.”** In other words, the bankers are
speculating.

**“I can’t get out here, I’m losing too much,” is the worst thing you’ll
hear a trader or investor say\!** What he is saying is: he’s getting
absolutely crushed, crucified, and buried, and he can’t get out of the
market because he’s getting crushed, crucified, and buried. That’s
stupid. Anytime someone says he can’t get out because he’s losing too
much, **he has personalized the market**; he just doesn’t want to lose
face by realizing the loss.

**In contrast to what most people do, your entry point should be a
function of the exit point.**

However, “profitable trades” that are missed actually cost zero while
poor controls (pick the stop later) or no controls (no stop) will sooner
or later cost you a lot of money.

**A plan that determines the stop-loss first enables you to convert a
naturally dangerous, continuous process into a finite, discrete event.**

**Having a plan requires thinking, which only an individual can do—not a
crowd.**

The failure to have and follow a plan is the root cause of most of the
other “reasons” (or, more accurately, “excuses”) for losing money in the
markets.

In his book Teaching Thinking, internationally renowned education expert
Edward de Bono says, “A person will use his thinking to keep himself
right. This is especially true with more able pupils whose ego has been
built up over the years on the basis that they are brighter than other
pupils. **Thinking is no longer used as an exploration of the subject
area but as an ego support device.**”

Philosopher-novelist Ayn Rand was asked one time in a radio interview
whether she thought gun-control laws violated the Second Amendment right
to bear arms. “I don’t know,” she responded, “I haven’t thought about
it.” And she said it in a manner as though it was the most natural thing
in the world not to have an answer or opinion. **Now here is one of the
towering geniuses of the twentieth century and the architect of an
entire philosophical system saying, “I don’t know.” Contrast her
approach to that of most people who have prepackaged intellectual
positions, views, opinions, and answers on almost every topic**,
gathered from television, newspapers, newsletters, and conversations.

#### CONCLUSION

In other words, measured inconsistency is the key to winning in poker.

#### POSTSCRIPT

**A salesman’s ego gratification from being right is precisely what the
entrepreneur, Speculator, and manager must avoid.**

However, **there is a common denominator among this group: rather than
just taking risks, as is commonly assumed, they excel at judging,
minimizing, and controlling risks.** \[re. entrepreneurs\]

The formula for failure is not lack of knowledge, brains, skill, or hard
work, and it’s not lack of luck; it’s personalizing losses, especially
if preceded by a string of wins or profits. It’s refusing to acknowledge
and accept the reality of a loss when it starts to occur because to do
so would reflect negatively on you.

