date: 2016-05-01
category: knebworth
title: MAY UPDATE
tags: NHDC, politics




# NHDC Emerging Local Plan


The process of producing the new Local Plan for the North Herts District
is progressing. The record number of over 8,000 responses to the
Preferred Options consultation last year has meant that, despite long
hours of work from the Planning Policy Officers, the consideration of
the comments will take until the summer and Consultation on the Proposed
Submission to the Secretary of State will follow thereafter. The formal
submission is expected to be made in March 2017 according to the current
timetable (Local Development Scheme).


There have been some suggestions that there will be a substantial
increase in the housing allocation numbers in the Emerging Local Plan.
It is the case that recent revised ONS figures suggest an increase, and
it is also the case that the National Planning Policy Framework suggests
that sites are identified in excess of the actual need to allow for some
flexibility. It is expected that there will be more clarity on this in
the next weeks.


As part of the Consultation, a number of new sites have been put forward
for review by the officers. They are in the process of being evaluated
against exactly the same criteria that were used to select the sites
that were included in the Preferred Options consultation. In Knebworth
itself, three additional sites have been put forward for consideration
for inclusion in the Local Plan – see
http://www.north-herts.gov.uk/planning/planning-policy/local-plan-emerging-policy/draft-local-plan-2011-2031/local-plan-preferred
(click on the text which reads "[New sites 2015 (additional sites
submitted
since 2013)](http://www.north-herts.gov.uk/sites/northherts-cms/files/Composite%20document%202.pdf)").
All are currently in the Green Belt, so this is, essentially, a
suggestion that they be taken out of the Green Belt. On the document
titled "NHDC Local Plan - New Sites 2015" these sites are numbered 334,
335 and 336. They are Cnebba's Field, Old Knebworth, the land to the
rear of Redwoods in Deards End Lane, and land east of Old Knebworth
lane. The three sites would comprise 79 potential dwellings in all, but
*only* if the sites are found to have met the criteria for inclusion. No
decision on this have yet been made.


# Knebworth GP Surgery


I am regularly asked about the status of the new GP surgery. As I
understand it, a planning application is due to be made this month,
assuming that the new arrangements for the Library are confirmed by HCC
in a cabinet meeting scheduled for 28<sup>th</sup> April. I understand
the impatience that people feel about this, but emphasise that NHDC is
not responsible for the delays.


# Thank you to retiring Councillor Alan Bardett


After serving as a District Councillor for over 14 years, Alan Bardett
has decided to retire and therefore not seek re-election in this year’s
elections. I would like to offer my great thanks to Alan for showing me
the ropes and giving me advice when I was a new councillor only two
years ago, as well as for all his efforts on behalf of our village over
the many years of service.


# Annual Parish Meeting – Wednesday, 4<sup>th</sup> May


I will be attending the Annual Parish Meeting on 4<sup>th</sup> May.
Please see the article from the Parish Council for more details.
