date: 2016-07-01
category: knebworth
title: JULY UPDATE
tags: NHDC, politics






**NHDC Grants Policy:** NHDC awards grants every year of around half a
million pounds. The existing policy for determining eligibility for
grants largely dates back to 2002 and was no longer fit for purpose, and
a revised grants policy was approved by the NHDC Cabinet on
14<sup>th</sup> June. The revised policy puts some more stringent
requirements on bodies applying for grants, with recommendations that:
‘precepting bodies' (i.e. parish councils) be no longer eligible to
apply for grants, no more than grant will be awarded to a body in any
one year, and no grant will be given where a body has been awarded a
grant in two consecutive years. Southern Rural, along with the other
area committees, will suffer an approximately 50% drop in the funds
available for grants.


It is recognized that parishes such as Knebworth may have difficulty
raising funds for capital projects so a new capital funding scheme has
been proposed which is designed to help both rural and urban capital
projects. The idea is that village and community halls can be helped out
when they have larger capital spending needs. The proposal is to make
available a quarter of a million pounds annually.


**Parking in Knebworth – meeting on 13<sup>th</sup> July:** NHDC
Councillor Julian Cunningham will be attending the Parish Council
meeting on 13 July at 8pm. He is the Executive Member (i.e. member of
NHDC Cabinet) with responsibility for parking policy. An hour at the
beginning of the meeting has been set aside to discuss parking problems
in the village.  


**NHDC Draft Local Plan – meeting on 20<sup>th</sup> July:** On 20th
July there will be an extraordinary meeting of the Council to approve a
draft Local Plan; as with other Council meetings this meeting is open to
the public. The plan will be scrutinized by a planning inspector at a
public enquiry, probably in 2017.


**Flooding in Knebworth Cemetery:** Stephen McPartland MP, officers from
Herts CC and NHDC and I will be inspecting Knebworth cemetery (off
Wadnall Way), part of which has been subject to periodic flooding, to
understand what practical solutions to improving the drainage can be
found.


**Knebworth Neighbourhood Plan Area:** At its meeting on 14<sup>th</sup>
June the NHDC Cabinet approved the Neighbourhood Plan Area for Knebworth
as being the whole of the Parish. See the Parish Council article in this
issue for further information about the Neighbourhood Plan.
