date: 2016-11-01
category: knebworth
title: NOVEMBER UPDATE
tags: NHDC, politics








# NHDC Local Plan â€“ Public Consultation Period 19th October
to end November 


The local public meeting ahead of the Parish Council meeting went ahead
as planned on Wednesday 12th October. The hall was full, with many of
those attending having to stand. The only occasion I can recall coming
close to this level of attendance was the meeting to discuss the NHDC
Preferred Options, in the fourth quarter of 2014.


Paul Ward delivered an excellent summary of the Local Plan process. This
set the context and enabled members of the public to understand better
how they could participate effectively in the Local Plan consultation
process. Both of your District Councillors were present, and did their
best to answer the questions addressed to them.


The Parish Council, in its regular meeting after the public meeting,
decided to allocate a budget to cover the cost of a planning consultant
to help it produce its response to the Local Plan consultation which
started on the 19th October and will run until the end of November. All
residents are encouraged to read the Plan, which will be available in
the Library, and online, and to submit their representations. A new
improved online system for recording representations will be accessible
via the District Council's website, or an email to
localplan@north-herts.gov.uk, or a letter to Planning Policy, Local Plan
Consultation, North Hertfordshire District Council, PO Box 480, M33 0DE.
Please ensure that you make it very clear which section of the Plan your
representation relates to. As I have explained previously, these
representations will be collated by NHDC and submitted to the Planning
Inspector ahead of the Public Enquiry, which is currently expected to
take place in the second quarter of 2017.


# NHDC Revised Grants Policy 


The revised Grants Policy, now adopted, has reduced the total amount of
money available for grants from the Council, and restricted the groups
which are eligible. One of the big changes is that 'precepting bodies',
such as Parish Councils are not allowed to ask NHDC for grants. The
basis for this is that they already have the power to raise money from
local residents via Council Tax. Historically, parish councils have been
a big recipient of NHDC Grants, so even with a reduced budget there is
an opportunity for local community groups to obtain funding. The
grant-awarding committee which covers Knebworth, Codicote and other
southern parishes is Southern Rural. It still has a budget of around
&pound;18,000 to spend by the end of the Civic Year, so now is the time to
write your applications ready for the next committee meeting, which is
on 1st December.


Note that there is a separate committee which overseas capital grants
for village halls, community halls and the like. This is the Community
Facilities Capital Projects Fund. The current four-year programme has
one million pounds to disburse for capital projects. Parish councils are
permitted to apply for capital funding from this fund.
