date: 2016-12-01
category: knebworth
title: DECEMBER UPDATE
tags: NHDC, politics








## Rail Services from Knebworth - Timetable Consultation


Consultation has finished.


The consultation for the timetable for Govia Thameslink Railways is
on-going but will close at 17:00 on 8th December. The proposals
represent a significant change to the current service for Knebworth as
the stopping trains will now all come from Cambridge (rather than
alternately Cambridge and Peterborough), and become Thameslink services
going into St Pancras. Most significantly, this would mean Knebworth
would not benefit from the fast services as present, although there are
some suggestions that GTR have already had second thoughts about this.
Evenings and Saturday services may be significantly reduced and
proposals also suggest that Knebworth goes back to having only one train
per hour throughout the day on Sundays.


Our MP, Stephen McPartland, has made a formal response, available on his
website, and the Parish Council is actively preparing one, which should
be available on their website also. Full details on the proposals and
how to respond are on the Great Northern Thameslink website:
<http://www.thameslinkrailway.com/your-journey/timetable-consultation>


# North Herts Leisure Centre and Council Offices Refurbishment


Work is progressing on refurbishing the North Herts Leisure Centre in
Letchworth. Much of this work was essential to keep the facility
functioning safely, but a new pool and cafe are included in the works.
This centre, which is operated by Stevenage Leisure Ltd on behalf of the
council, produces revenue for the Council, which will go up under the
agreed contractual arrangements once the work is complete.


The project to refurbish the Council Offices will soon be underway. It
is expected that the work will start in the next month or so, and that
staff will be relocated to other offices around the area. The work is
being project managed by local firm, Wilmott Dixon. All staff will be
'decanted' from the existing District Council Offices to Town Lodge over
the course of this month. Town Lodge is also in Gernon Road, but
opposite the Broadway Cinema.


# NHDC Planning Portal


The council's planning portal is being upgraded, to a more functional
system. This will continue to be supplied by Idox PLC., the current
operator. A number of you have noticed how unsatisfactory the current
system is. I encourage you to try the new one and send your feed back to
me or to NHDC at service@north-herts.gov.uk.


 you when I have
more details.
