title: 
date: 2022-08-31
status: published

# 2022-08-31
## Wrap

ADP showed an estimated 132K jobs created in Aug, well below the 270K in July.
Job creation is definitely coming down, but I'm not convinced that it will drag us down into a recession.
Obviously, the data is for the US, but it's going to be worse in Europe, surely.

The markets bounced around. Not a great deal of change.

In other news:
-   China's August Manufacturing PMI contracted for the second straight month.
-   The Mortgage Bankers Association's mortgage applications index declined 3.7% week-over-week with purchase applications down 2%.
-   The eurozone's preliminary August CPI was up 9.1% year-over-year, which is a new record high.


That's the economic data. Commentary from leading Fed officials hasn't been supportive either.

New York Fed President Williams (FOMC voter) pointed to a need to keep rates higher for longer and noted the market is wrong to expect a rate cut soon, according to _The Wall Street Journal_. Cleveland Fed President Mester (FOMC voter), meanwhile, said she thinks it will be necessary to move the fed funds rate somewhat above 4.00% by early next year and that she does not think there will be a rate cut in 2023.

The earnings news is a bit questionable, too.

On the bright side, **CrowdStrike (CRWD)** posted better-than-expected results and issued Q3 and FY23 guidance above consensus estimates. **HP, Inc. (HPQ)** also topped its fiscal Q3 EPS estimate but brought things down a notch with fiscal Q4 EPS guidance that was well below the consensus estimate. **Seagate Technology (STX)** for its part said its fiscal Q1 EPS will be meaningfully below prior guidance of $1.20 due in part to more cautious buying behavior among global enterprise/OEM and certain U.S. cloud customers since its earnings call in mid-July.

The difference makers for the futures market it seems are the mega-cap stocks. They are trading modestly higher in pre-market action, offering some influential (and needed) support.

Some might also point a finger to falling oil prices ($88.94/bbl, -2.70, -3.0%) as a source of support, but here again that is a questionable catalyst considering the weakness is a byproduct of concerns about a slowdown in global growth.

So, then, the stock market is left to ride the notion that it is oversold on a short-term basis (the Nasdaq is down 10% from its August 16 high) and due for a bounce after the indices dropped below technical support at their 50-day moving average in yesterday's trade.

That idea looks to be sticking in the futures market, but whether its sticks in the cash session remains to be seen. It didn't stick yesterday.