date: 2021-12-03
title: Finding a catalyst

# Friday  3, December 2021

## Docusign ($DOCU:NSQ)

Docusign "puked" today.
It was down 32% pre-market.
Dr Patel joked about it:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Docusign stock price down 30% after analysts discover that the entire business can be replaced by pen and paper</p>&mdash; Dr. Parik Patel, BA, CFA, ACCA Esq. 💸 (@ParikPatelCFA) <a href="https://twitter.com/ParikPatelCFA/status/1466545964353671168?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 2, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

but the reason the stock went down was that the results confirmed what everyone knew: that lockdown stocks are usually chronically lossmaking.
The publishing of the figures was the trigger, but we all knew this was not a great business.
Nobody wants to go first, but there is safety in numbers.
Exactly how the crowd follows is difficult to model, but it's definitely not entirely down to the underlying economics.


## $AAPL -- the last domino to fall

I have been wrong about Apple for a long time.

[this article](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4473083-apple-the-last-domino-to-fall-in-a-market-house-of-cards?utm_campaign=RTA+Articles&utm_medium=email&utm_source=seeking_alpha&utm_term=RTA+Article+Smart)
 makes the case that the idea that nobody ever lost money by buying Apple shares is going to be proved wrong.
The argument is that inflation will be the catalyst to re-rate the stock.
The article also makes a compelling case that, like $TSLA and other meme stocks, the price is being manipulated higher by gamma squeezes.
I believe that there are active parties buying short-dated call options to drive these stocks higher, but I have no idea whether this is some sort of concert party of human buyers or it's simply that some AI algorithm has worked out that this is a way of making money. Scary? You bet!



