title: Knebworth Parish News, Sept 2014
date: 2014-09-01
modified: 2020-05-09
lang: EN-gb
Summary: "Proposal to build a solar farm"

# Swangley's Farm Solar PV

As you may already be aware, there is a proposal to build a 'solar farm'
on one of the fields comprising Swangley's Farm. This will involve
covering much of the field with solar panels, fixed on metal frames,
installing a container-sized inverter building, and connecting the
latter to the grid. The field is at the junction of Swangley's Lane and
Baines Lane, at the eastern boundary of the parish, where it borders
Datchworth Parish. The field is approximately fifty acres. Full details
are available on the website of Solstice Renewables, the developer, as
well as on the Parish Council website.

Another proposal has been made for a similar-sized solar farm at Three
Houses Farm, between Three Houses Lane and Node Wood. This is in the
western 'finger' of the Parish, which encompasses Rusling End and Three
Houses Lane. No planning application has been made for this development
as yet, so it is too early to say any more about it. It is notable that
a number of these developments have been proposed in nearby parishes,
including in Graveley and Langley. This may be linked to the current
subsidy levels, which are due to change in April 2015.

It is expected that the fully validated applications for these two solar
farms will have been accepted by NHDC by September. In the case of the
Swangley's Farm site, a 'screening opinion' has already been received
and approved. This is a preliminary enquiry to determine what documents
must be accompany in the application itself. The approval of this
screening opinion application does not have any bearing on whether the
development application itself will be approved.

The process for deciding on these applications is as follows. Once the
application has been validated, it will be uploaded to the NHDC planning
portal. The application will be examined by the Parish Council (or which
I am a member) at a meeting of the Planning Committee, typically the
first meeting after the application has been validated. Members of the
public are welcome to attend this meeting. A period, typically fifteen
minutes before the meeting formally starts, is allocated for members of
the public to give their views. The discussion about the application is
held in public, and, usually, the committee decides whether it has any
objection to the application, and, if it has, on what ground(s) it
objects. It may also decide to support an application in some cases, or
merely to not object to it.

The key to the process is deciding on which ground or grounds the
committee objects to the application. Planning applications must be
decided in relation to the relevant planning legislation. If an
application is not consistent with the Local Plan, or is outside the
guidelines defined in the national and local guidelines, then the Parish
Council may object, but the specific guideline that has been breached
must be identified. The decision of the Parish Council is not final: it
is merely a consultee, alongside possibly many others, depending on the
type of the application. Neighbours are another class of consultee: all
have the right to submit their comments to the Planning Authority, which
is in this case is NHDC.

The key decision to be made is whether or not the renewable energy
generated by these farms constitutes circumstances which are
sufficiently special to override the general principle that development
in the Green Belt is inappropriate. The relevant legislation is the
National Planning Policy Framework, supplemented by the government's
Planning Practice Guidance. Any decision about these applications, as in
the case of any other planning applications, will be decided in the
light of this planning legislation, not on the weight of local opinion
or on the value of renewable energy generation.

References

Parish Clerk, Knebworth: clerk@knebworthpc.org.uk or 01438 813795.

NHDC Planning Portal: http://pa.north-herts.gov.uk/online-applications/

NHDC: 01462 474000 or service@north-herts.gov.uk

Planning Practice Guidance:
http://planningguidance.planningportal.gov.uk/
