status: published
date: 2022-03-29
title: Grizzly Update

# Tuesday 29, March 2022

[Emerita Resources deemed a scam by Grizzly Research](https://grizzlyreports.com/infamous-stock-promoter-backed-emerita-resources-nasdaq-emo-bait-and-switch-track-record-and-rampant-misrepresentation/)


## Wrap

Generally, this was a risk-on day.
There are some rumours that Zelenskyy and Putin will sit down to negotiate an end to the war in Ukraine.
In response to this:

- oil prices continue to sag, although at a slowing rate relative to the last few trading days,
- equity indexes, globally went up. High beta stocks (e.g. $TSLA) disproportionately,
- most commodities were dragged down with oil, lumber being an exception,
- most sovereign bond yields went up, in a more-or-less parallel shift across the curve,
- the dollar went down, by about 67bp. Most other currencies followed suit, except GBP, which sank alongside the dollar (GBP/USD = 1.31).

In other news, Russia's demands to be paid in RUB for its oil and gas was resisted by the EU.
In the US there was a proposal to tax billionaires on unrealized capital gains.

On practically all measures (5-30s, 3m-5y, OIS 30-10, etc.) yield curves are inverting with a widespread acceptance that this indicates that the short-term rate is above "r-star", the rate which can co-exist with full employment. In other words, we are heading for recession, but the stock market is only 3.5% off its ATM. Bears such as Sven Henrich and Stanphyl Capital are wailing. At some point they will be right. 

## Image of the day



<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="fr" dir="ltr">📸Helder Vinagre Rue des Fossés Saint-Jacques <a href="https://t.co/2gj1to8klk">pic.twitter.com/2gj1to8klk</a></p>&mdash; Iconic (@Iconic___Images) <a href="https://twitter.com/Iconic___Images/status/1508338804561747968?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 28, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
