status: published
date: 2021-12-02
title: Money and life

# Thursday  2, December 2021

## Hedge Fund moves

These are the stocks that are being bought and sold by hedge funds.
Can't find where I got this. I think that GS did the original research.

### Rising Stars

1. $EQT -- EQT
1. $HRC -- Hill-Rom Holdings
1. $BILL -- Bill.com
1. $FIVN -- Five9
1. $TROW -- T. Row Price 
1. $DTM -- DT Midstream
1. $MCFE -- McAfee
1. $DDOG -- DataDog
1. $MSFT -- Microsoft
1. $AN -- AutoNation

### Falling Stars

1. $AMZN -- Amazon
1. $LZ -- LegalZoom
1. $GH -- Guardant Health
1. $MTB -- M&T Bank
1. $FB -- Meta Platforms
1. $BLL -- Ball Corp.
1. $TMUS -- T-Mobile
1. $LMT -- Lockheed Martin
1. $CSGP -- CoStar Group

## Money and life

I read [a super post](https://moretothat.com/the-nothingness-of-money/) about how people value money.
I discovered it after reading [Rich in experiences](https://www.alphaletter.co/p/rich-in-experiences-sufficient-in) by Alpha Letter, someone I follow for financial analysis.
Economists think about the 'time value of money,' i.e. the interaction between consumption now and consumption in the future. 
We can't forgo consumption now in exchange for consumption in the past, but we can defer consumption to the future.
The problem is that we don't know how long we'll be around, so even the most compelling deferral may prove valueless.
In an ideal world, leaving aside wanting to support family and friends who live on, we'd like to burn through all our savings by the time we expire.
We just don't have a countdown timer.

Of course, rich people think they can cheat death. Reputedly, Jeff Bezos is spending billions to prolong life in general, and his life in particular. It may be a good use of his billions, but I sort of doubt it.
If were serious about improving the sum of human happiness, he'd spend it on young, poor people. 
But, as my namesake once said, "The rich are different."

## Autostore Holdings ($AUTO:OSL)

Macro Ops Musings wrote up and incredibly bullish piece on Autostore Holdings today.
You can read it [here](https://macroops.substack.com/p/autostore-holdings-auto).
It's hard to get any financial statements for the company, at least for its home listing in Norway.
It bounces around a lot, and seems to have negative margins, but presumably some of the spend is really creating 
intangible assets.
The write up implies that it has an incredibly strong competitive position.
I don't have the resources to check, but it is probably worth watching.

