---
date: 18 Dec 2020
category: markets
title: tbc
---
# Models, backtesting and risk management

[This unrolled thread](https://threadreaderapp.com/thread/1339415934901964801.html) was very interesting to me.
It's about having a model, and backtesting it, to make your trading better.
It's by [@EffMktHype](https://twitter.com/EffMktHype). His very twitter handle shows that he's skeptical of the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH). 
I'm a huge believer in the EMH.
It's not the 'evidence' that nearly all asset managers fail to beat the market.
It's that if someone had a consistently winning strategy they'd end up owning the market, and it would stop working.
So, all the talk about models and back testing left me cold. 
It was like reading about the alchemists searching for the technique to turn base metal into gold.
Physics shows this is not possible (except in a nuclear reactor).
But, I can believe that a systematic way to close positions before losses get out of hand would be beneficial.
Predictions are all very well. 
We all know that at some point the US dollar is going to cease being the world's reserve currency of choice.
This knowledge does not confer an edge, because the timing is so uncertain, as is the market reaction to this outcome becoming more imminent.
Anyway, we need to keep an open mind, and this thread points out how one person understands what 'having a system' actually involves. 
I'd like to see some examples, but typically enthusiasts for systems won't share them, even the ones that have been back tested to destruction.
