---
date: 16 Dec 2020
title: year is running out
category: markets
---

# Flakey stocks

$SNOW, Snowflake, is looking shakey after a meteoric IPO.
$FDX has had a terrific run, but looks over extended too.
$SPCE took a dive, like its faulty rocket test the other day. My guess is that it has further to go. 


# Nordea Nuggets

There are some great ideas from Andreas Steno-Larsen, [here](https://corporate.nordea.com/article/62057/multi-asset-10-1-tail-trades-of-2021).
The list is well worth reading, but the themes are:

- the Fed may lose its nerve and tighten. Options on this are practically free,
- Salmon prices might explode, can be exploited via CAD/NOK option spread ('the fishiest trade of all'),
- ECB curve spreads are going to be compressed by Lagarde: buy BTP, sell Bunds,
- The consensus on gold might be wrong: real rates may go higher,
- SEK might go up. Suggested trade is via an FRA. Possible Riksbank rate hike,
- RMB (aka CNH) takes a dive: Biden turns out to be not such a China dove after all. I've never got very far with the RMB myself: it's barely convertible, but this is an attractive idea,
- Buy Green: Barclays Euro Green Bond index against Barclays Corp. Bond index. Certainly, govts are throwing money at anything faintly tinged green,
- Curve steepner: Steno-Larsen recommends 2s10s steepeners for USD and 10s30s for EUR. In general, steepeners are conviction trades for me,
- Boom or bust trade. Currently, the stock market is discounting a boom, but the bond market a bust. They can't both be right, but maybe a staddle type trade can be crafted to profit whichever comes to pass. S-L recommends a swaption trade, not accessible to mere mortals,
- Similar idea re EUR/USD: go for a strangle.
- (another trade involving a knock-in FX option, which exploits a particular Brexit sequence. Probably brilliant, but definitely reserved for the institutional investor.)



# Crumbs

- $AAPL shot up on a report, not by the company itself, that they'd sell a lot more phones. Smells like $TSLA stock pumping, but worked fine. Stock up 5%. Call volumes for $AAPL have collapsed, so they need all the stock pumping they can get.
- $PEN makes catheters that kill people. It might be a sell.
- Vaccine play - $VXRT
- Virus cure play - $CYDY
- Telehealth play - $DOCRF
- Solar play - $FSLR
- Solar / EV play - $VVPR
- Marijuana play - $CBDD
- 5G play - $INSG
- AI play - $AITX
- Augmented reality play - $NEXCF
- Consumer play - $CWH
- Cyber play - $VISM
- Rare Earths play - $MP
    
 
# Wrap

It was the Fed Press Conference today.
Lots of Fed haters had their normal reactions. 
The basic moan is that the Fed creates inequality.
I think that's basically right, but maybe it's an unwanted side effect of monetary policy, which is forced on the Fed as a result of gridlock in Congress & the Senate. 
For the opposite view, checkout [Rudy Havenstein, art blogger](https://twitter.com/RudyHavenstein).

His favourite chart is this:

<div class="embed-container"><iframe src="https://fred.stlouisfed.org/graph/graph-landing.php?g=yNTf&width=670&height=475" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="overflow:hidden;" allowTransparency="true" loading="lazy"></iframe></div><script src="https://fred.stlouisfed.org/graph/js/embed.js" type="text/javascript"></script></div>

As expected, Powell was extremely dovish, which resulted in a risk on reaction from markets:

- SPX & NDX up,
- nearly all global equities up,
- Euro up vs USD,
-  govvie slightly yields up (except Germany),
- gold, silver & miners up,
- energy commodities, foods up.
- 