Summary: "Lessons that can be drawn from a local planning application"
category: knebworth
title: Travellers site at Pottersheath, Codicote
date: 2017-11-01T11:43:51
modified: 2020-05-09
tags: NHDC, politics








# Complexities of the Planning Process  An On-Going Case


An undecided planning application for a Gypsy and Traveller site at
Pottersheath illustrates some of the complexity around the
interpretation of national planning policy, as well as the diverse roles
of the Local Planning Authority (NHDC), the local Ward councillors, the
Planning Control Committee, as supported by the planning officers and
the Planning Inspectorate. The law provides for some local autonomy in
deciding planning applications, but this often falls short of what those
who are most affected would want.


The Pottersheath site is in Knebworth Ward for NHDC and Codicote Parish.
It is in the Green Belt and applications to develop it had repeatedly
been refused by the NHDC, the Local Planning Authority. Last year it was
occupied by travellers, and a retrospective application was made to use
it as a site for gypsies and travellers, reviewed by the Planning
Control Committee of NHDC in January.


There were a considerable number of objectors, and in my capacity of
“member advocate” I objected to the application, as did Cllr Jane Gray,
the councillor for Codicote. The Committee refused the application,
which went against the recommendation of the officers. This itself is a
relatively unusual circumstance: the members of the committee naturally
look to the planning officers, who are all professionally qualified, for
an interpretation of the complex and extensive canon of planning law.
When an application comes before the committee, the officers prepare a
report for the committee; in this case the recommendation was to grant
the application, albeit for a temporary period.


An appeal was lodged against the decision. As the application included
policy aspects, the planning inspectorate decided on a Public Enquiry,
rather than the more usual public hearing. NHDC commissioned further
work to defend the Committee’s decision, engaged the services of an
expert witness to interpret over 1,000 pages of new evidence submitted
by the applicant, as well as counsel to present the evidence. Based on
this, advice given to the Committee was that the decision made in
January could no longer be defended.


However, the expert witness employed by objectors reached a contrary
conclusion. At the Committee’s October meeting I, together with Cllr
Gray, again supported the objectors, seeking for NHDC to continue to
defend its decision at the Public Enquiry. Disappointingly, the
Committee decided that it would not make a defence. The objectors were,
of course, disappointed by this decision: had this application not been
made retrospectively, the personal circumstances of the applicants would
not have been taken into account, and, therefore, would not have been
able to form the 'very special circumstances' required to block
inappropriate development in the Green Belt; their expert witness
outlines evidence in defence of the decision.


This experience allows us to draw several lessons, which may be borne in
mind as other applications affecting Knebworth, such as for The Station
Pub, progress through the legal planning procedure:


-   the 'very special circumstances' which are needed to justify
    development in the Green Belt are extremely wide ranging, and
    certainly include a lack of supply in the NHDC area and may include
    the personal circumstances of the applicant;


-   a refusal by NHDC is in general not the final step in the
    determination of a planning application. A well-funded applicant can
    choose to appeal and have the decision made by a Planning Inspector,
    who will decide the application on the basis of evidence;


-   the ability to withstand applications for inappropriate development
    in the Green Belt depends critically on an adequate supply of
    appropriate sites in the Local Plan


-   when the balance of supply and demand of sites changes in the
    District, applications which were refused in the past may have to
    be granted.




