Summary: "September Parish News"
category: knebworth
title: Byelaws, Planning Portal Software, Chas Lowe site
date: 2017-09-01T10:47:26Z
modified: 2020-05-09
tags: NHDC, politics






# Public Consultation on Revoking of NHDC Byelaws


NHDC has reviewed its byelaws, some of which date back to the 19th
Century, and have no relevance today. The recommendation is to revoke
all existing byelaws with the exception of the 2007 Acupuncture,
Tattooing, Semi-Permanent Skin-Colouring, Cosmetic Piercing and
Electrolysis byelaw.


In most cases the byelaws, many of which related to enforcement of
sanitary practices in commercial premises and to the prohibition of
antisocial behaviour in public places have been superseded by more
modern national statutes. For example, there is a 1874 byelaw that
relates to licencing of 'Omnibuses, Wagonettes & Stage Carriages and the
Proprietors, Drivers and Conductors thereof'.


NHDC are conducting a public consultation on this which ends on 22nd
September. Details can be accessed via the website and copies of the
survey, council report and the byelaws schedule are available at the
NHDC reception desk upon request during normal office hours.


# Upgrade to NHDCâ€™s Planning Portal Software


Readers will be pleased to learn that NHDC has upgraded its planning
portal software. The system does not look noticeably different, but it
seems to be more responsive, and it certainly has had much better
'uptime' than previously. It is a pity that the upgrade coincided with
the consultation on the Station Pub redevelopment (ref. 17/01622/1). In
the end 181 responses were received which, hopefully, will have captured
all the valid planning issues that the application raised. No date has
yet been set for the Committee meeting at which the application will be
decided. Note that it is not possible to appeal against a decision to
grant an application, although it is possible to appeal against a
refusal.


Some local residents have questioned the need for respondents to
planning applications to provide their name and address to NHDC. I have
queried this and have been assured that, in fact, responses without an
address will still be taken into account. The only requirement is for
respondents to provide some contact details, so the officers can get in
touch if the response is ambiguous, or if an amendment to the
application is received. If you wish to make a representation, you
should be aware that your comments will be made public.


Another planning application in Knebworth that readers may wish to
consider is the redevelopment of the Chas Lowe site (reference
17/01863/1). The proposal is for the demolition of the existing
buildings and the erection of 48 assisted living extra care (Class C2)
apartments for the frail elderly, including communal facilities and car
parking along with ground floor commercial unit (Use A1, A2, A3, D1 or
D2) fronting London Road. The deadline for responding to this is the 6th
September.
