title: The plot thickens, the curve steepens
date: 2022-10-26
status: published

# 2022-10-26
## 5-30 Steepener
Lending money to someone for thirty years is a lot riskier than lending to them for one year, or even for five years.
The market's price of risk is an interest rate premium. Lending to me is a lot riskier than lending to HM Treasury, so I pay a higher rate of interest. 
You would have thought that even with the US Treasury lenders would demand a higher rate to lend for 30 years than for five, but in fact that is not always the case, as the chart shows.
When lending long-term, the biggest risk for the lender is inflation, which will kill real returns.
With inflation at 10%, a yield of 4.5% means that every year one's asset is wasting away by 5.5%.
In fact, since April 2021 the premium has evaporated to the point that today it's zero. 
In recent years, this spread has almost never got lower than -60bp. 
With inflation getting entrenched, it seems logical that the 30-year rate will start to outpace the 5-year one, but these are odd times, and if the Fed starts buying long-dated Treasuries again, all bets are off.

<div class="embed-container"><iframe src="https://fred.stlouisfed.org/graph/graph-landing.php?g=Vh66&width=670&height=475" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="overflow:hidden;" allowTransparency="true" loading="lazy"></iframe></div><script src="https://fred.stlouisfed.org/graph/js/embed.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
Note that this a live chart. If you are reading this after Oct 2022, you might see something very different to what I did when I wrote this. However, at least you'll have quantitative hindsight in that case!
## The Economist's verdict on Sunak: miss
[Sunak was behind many of the policies which have landed the UK in the mess that it is in.](https://www.economist.com/britain/2022/10/25/rishi-sunaks-first-job-clearing-up-his-own-mess)
This is the verdict of the Economist.
The UK is in a sorry state, and it's verdict is that Sunak is not the guy to lead us out of it. 
I am sure he's very clever, but all the evidence of recent elections is that academic intelligence can be a handicap in politics, as it alienates the candidate from the mass of voters, especially when it is coupled with a lack of empathy, which may be another of Sunak's attributes.
