title: Why wouldn't you become a bank?
date: 2022-10-18
status: published

# 2022-10-18
## Why doesn't everyone become a bank
Banks are companies that finance themselves and make profits. 
Just like regular companies.
Except that governments guarantee borrowing undertaken by banks, so that they can be very highly geared and do stuff which has a very low return on assets.

It's no wonder that GE became a bank under Jack Welch. It's amazing really that investment banks, which, as Matt Levine points out, _are not really banks at all_ continued until as late as the Global Financial Crisis before they became banks in order to take advantage of the free money that banks can access. 

OK, it's not really free. The cost is big, and fixed, represented by a mountain of compliance. But if you are a bulge bracket investment bank, you can afford a big compliance department, something that your smaller rivals cannot. Wow, is it really surprising that behemoths like JPM and Goldmans dominate the ecosystem? I guess that's a feature, not a bug.

> And then the 2008 financial crisis hit and the independent full-service investment banking model ended. [[2]](#footnote-2)  It turned out to be too risky to run a giant institutional sales and trading business without a lender of last resort. Merrill and Bear got bought by universal banks (Bank of America, JPMorgan). Lehman went bankrupt and got sold off in parts to universal banks (Nomura, Barclays).

> Goldman and Morgan Stanley did something different, though; they _became_ universal banks. In September 2008, they [converted into commercial banks](https://link.mail.bloombergbusiness.com/click/29401395.27731/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29sZG1hbnNhY2hzLmNvbS9vdXItZmlybS9oaXN0b3J5L21vbWVudHMvMjAwOC1iYW5rLWhvbGRpbmctY29tcGFueS5odG1sIzp-OnRleHQ9R29sZG1hbiUyMFNhY2hzJTIwQW5ub3VuY2VzJTIwSXQlMjBXaWxsJTIwQmVjb21lJTIwYSUyMEJhbmslMjBIb2xkaW5nJTIwQ29tcGFueSwtVGhlbWUlM0ElMjBDbGllbnRzJnRleHQ9SW4lMjBTZXB0ZW1iZXIlMjAyMDA4JTJDJTIwZGF5cyUyMGFmdGVyLGNhcGl0YWwlMkMlMjBsaXF1aWRpdHklMjBhbmQlMjBjb21wZXRpdGl2ZSUyMHBvc2l0aW9uLg/5892dc3ed4cd66c8648b47c9Bd46366d6) in order to get access to the Fed. And then they came into work the next day and, uh, survived. They did not convert into commercial banks with ambitious plans to get into corporate lending and retail banking, to issue credit cards and mortgages. They converted into commercial banks over a scary weekend in order to keep access to funding for their trading businesses. They were _technically_ universal banks, but _really_ they remained independent full-service investment banks.

-- [Goldman Has Some New Divisions](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2022-10-17/goldman-has-some-new-divisions)

## Image
