title: Matt Levine -- hilarious and insightful
date: 2022-12-14
status: published

# 2022-12-14
## Matt Levine is worth reading for the laughs
> This is called a “pump-and-dump.” I don’t know why people keep falling for it? I guess the pictures of the Ferraris. Also a desire for investing to be _easy_, for it to be a _trick_ that you can learn from some clever insiders on a Discord. If I tell you “buying stock is about allocating capital to productive businesses and sharing, over the long term, in the value they create for society,” and some guy standing next to a Ferrari on Twitter says “buying stocks is about interpreting mysterious signals that tell you THIS STOCK WILL GO UP 200% THIS AFTERNOON,” his theory sounds more fun, and it certainly sounds like it will make you more money more quickly than my theory. It _will_ make _him_ more money more quickly. Like, the guy _is_ a successful day trader. It’s just that his secret is tricking you.

> I say “you,” but I doubt anyone reading this column is actually getting tricked. This whole online subculture — people who go on Twitter and Discord so they can be tricked by pump-and-dump scammers — is quite large and very hard for me to understand. My assumption is that a lot of them think they are wise to the scam. If some pump-and-dump scammer pumps a stock, and you buy it a second after he pumps it and sell it a second before he dumps it, you can make money alongside him. You are knowingly playing hot potato; you are trying to follow his lead to take advantage of his _other_ victims. Perhaps this will work, or perhaps it won’t and you’ll end up a victim too, but maybe it beats having a real job.