title: The view from Whites
date: 2023-03-20

# The wokeness virus

Institutions need leadership.
That leadership needs to be focussed on the goals of the organization.
Obviously, a leader needs to take his followers with him, but he cannot
afford to be held hostage by them, or their ideas, at least if those
ideas conflict with the aims of the organization.

Understanding an organization's goals is not alwasy clear. 
Some have clear constitutions and founding documents.
Others, especially very ancient ones, evolve and have a purpose which
is not always immediately apparent and might even seem at odds with modern
morality.

The demise of religion has turned us all into freethinkers.
We no longer fear censure by religious authorities, and exclusion 
from the community of faith that in previous times was at the very 
least a meal ticket and in some cases was essential for admission
to all the positions of power in society.

The result is that it's much less fun being a leader now. Whether one
leads the National Trust, or the BBC, or the Army, or even the government.
The Right argues that this erodes the effectiveness of the institutions. 
That the original purpose of it is destroyed in the service of promoting
gender equality, or trans rights or whatever the cause du jour is.
The counter argument is that it's good that institutions can
adapt themselves to the changing moral framework of society without
having to be destroyed and replaced. After all, they were, presumably
created to reflect the priorities of the time they were created.
If the army had the same code of leadership now that it had 
in Wellington's time it would, surely, never attract any soldiers.

This is, sadly, bound up with the increasing polarisation of society.
Someone like Trump actively stirs up conflict to advance his own 
agenda, without much regard for the objective truth of his remarks.
As a response to this, for example, we now instinctively reject 
his assertions, even when they might well be true. One case in
point is his speculation that Covid-19 was the result of a 'lab 
leak' in Wuhan, something that now is accepted as likely, 
at least by one major US government agency.

The pendulum swings, but also the Overton Window slides up and down.
In the 1970's the power of the unions went unchallenged, even by 
Margaret Thatcher, the new leader of the Conservative Party. 
But as a consensus built that this power was excessive it was challenged, 
and laws ended up being passed which pushed the pendulum back, and the Window
closed. Although wokeness now seems unchallengable, its equivalent in the past certainly 
was not. It seems likely that it will not be in the future, and surely 
if our institutions have survived for hundreds of years they will tolerate
a few years of imposed wokeness. 

This is not to argue that the constrained decision making that modern sensitivies 
impose on ancient institutions does not impose a degree of inefficiency. 
Democracy itself is highly inefficient and messy. But it's a better bet than
totalitarianism every time!



